[PMM-275] OAS Hub: Security (#39)
speakeasy-api/developer-docs: openapi/security/security-schemes.md

---
title: "Security Schemes in OpenAPI"
description: "Describe API authentication and authorization in OpenAPI using Security Schemes."
---

# Security Schemes in OpenAPI

Most APIs have some form of authorization and/or authentication, from simple API keys to scope-based OAuth 2 tokens on a tight rotation. APIs might support multiple methods in various combinations, so describing what goes where can become a bit of a challenge. OpenAPI helps by supporting a wide array of authorization and authentication methods, all of which can described under the larger umbrella of Security Schemes.

> Security scheme objects are defined in the [Components Object](/openapi/components) in the `securitySchemes` section, and the `security` field in the root object or operation object references them. The `security` field is an array of security requirement objects, which are maps of security scheme names to scopes.

Reviewer: Is this missing a word? Should it be _that_ references them?

```suggestion
Security scheme objects are defined in the [Components Object](/openapi/components) in the `securitySchemes` section, and the `security` field in the root object or operation object references them.
```

```yaml
paths:
  /drinks:
    get:
      security:
        - MySchemeAbc: []
components:
  securitySchemes:
    MySchemeAbc:
      type: http
      scheme: basic
```

> Each security scheme has a unique name in the `securitySchemes` map, and the `type` field is particular standard or convention.

Reviewer: This sentence could use some grammar love <3

> ## Authentication Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Authentication types
```

    # openIdConnect ------------
    OpenId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/openidconfig.json

    # oauth2 ------------
    OAuth2:
      type: oauth2
      flows:
        authorizationCode:
          scopes:
            read: Grants read access
            write: Grants write access
          authorizationUrl: https://example.org/oauth/authorize
          tokenUrl: https://example.org/oauth/token
          refreshUrl: https://example.org/oauth/refresh
        clientCredentials:
          scopes:
            read: Grants read access
            write: Grants write access
          tokenUrl: https://example.org/oauth/token
          refreshUrl: https://example.org/oauth/refresh
        implicit:
          scopes:
            read: Grants read access
            write: Grants write access
          authorizationUrl: https://example.org/oauth/authorize
          refreshUrl: https://example.org/oauth/refresh
        password:
          scopes:
            read: Grants read access
            write: Grants write access
          tokenUrl: https://example.org/oauth/token
          refreshUrl: https://example.org/oauth/refresh
```

> To learn more about different types of security scheme, take a look at the guides for [API Key](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-api-key), [HTTP Authorization](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-basic) (Basic, Digest, Bearer, and more), [OAuth 2.0](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-oauth2), [OpenID Connect](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-openid), or [Mutual TLS](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-mutualtls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about different types of security schemes, take a look at the guides for [API Key](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-api-key), [HTTP Authorization](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-basic) (Basic, Digest, Bearer, and more), [OAuth 2.0](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-oauth2), [OpenID Connect](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-openid), or [Mutual TLS](/openapi/security/security-schemes/security-mutualtls).
```

## Global authentication vs endpoint authentication

> Describing security in your OpenAPI document is then done through 1 of 2 different options:

Reviewer: Smoother phrasing here?

- **Global security:** the security you describe is available for all operations in your document.

> - **Per operation security:** when described it overrides any global level security described.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Per operation security:** when specified, it overrides any global level security described.
```

## How to describe security

The [security](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#security-requirement-object) section is a list (actually a list of key-value pairs, but we will talk a bit more about that later) of security schemes that can be used to authenticate all operations or a particular operation (depending on the scope of the [security](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#security-requirement-object) list).

Below is an example of a number of different ways you can use the [security](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#security-requirement-object) section of your document:

The items in the list are key-value pairs with a name or key of a security scheme defined in the components section. We recommend giving them a boring name that explains what they are.

The values are an array of scopes used only by the [oauth2](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0#oauth2-security-requirement) and [openIdConnect](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-discovery-06) type schemes, and define what scopes are needed for the API.

> When used as shown above it provides a list of available schemes that can be used, with the end-user of the API being able to choose one of the available schemes to use to authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used as shown above, it provides a list of available schemes that can be used. The end-user of the API is then able to choose one of the available schemes to authenticate with.
```

> If more than one scheme is required to authenticate an API, then that is where additional pairs in the key-value pairs come in. See the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If more than one scheme is required to authenticate an API, that is where additional pairs in the key-value pairs come in. See the example below:
```
